<h1>Precipitation Mapping and Spatial Analysis using R</h1>
<p>Precipitation is typically measured locally at a limited number of stations whereas most environmental modeling and engineering applications require fine resolution spatial precipitation fields to produce reliable results. Coming up with such spatial datasets requires the use of spatial interpolation techniques that rely on assumptions about the spatial statistics of precipitation. Here a comparative study of interpolation of point precipitation measurements using inverse distance weighting, multi-linear regression, kriging, and cokriging with elevation, demonstrates advantages and shortcomings of each method in adequately depicting precipitation fields. Examples are given using open source code in R. Methods are applied on an annual precipitation dataset from the Island of Crete, Greece, where complex terrain causes strong orography effects that affect the spatial variability precipitation. Results show that in this case, cokriging of point precipitation with elevation provides an improved understanding of the underlying statistics and a more reliable spatial precipitation assessment.</p>
<h1>How to cite</h1>
<p>This code was used to produce the analysis presented in Daliakopoulos, I.N. (2021). "Precipitation mapping and spatial analysis using R" in Earth Surface Responses and Processes: Precipitation, Elsevier (Amsterdam, Netherlands), eds. Rodrigo-Comino. J. pp 173-192. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-822699-5.00008-2
